Where Is The Love - The Black Eyed Peas
What is an essay?
A piece of writing that analyses a topic or issue. Essays are designed to convey your opinion
on something.
Example Essay Topic
Don't judge a book by its cover.
This well-known phrase implies that neither people nor objects should be judged by their outward appearance but by their actions or worth.
Think about what this saying means for you. Write about a situation which could be summarised by this saying. Your writing may take the form of an essay, a narrative, a letter or even a magazine article.
You have 60 minutes to complete the task. You can write up to 600 words, although you may not need this many. You should leave yourself enough time to edit your work thoroughly. You can make as many changes as you would like to.
You will be marked on the following:
the relationship you develop with your audience
the organisation of your writing
the selection of words and language
the cohesiveness of your writing
your demonstration of correct grammar, punctuation and spelling.
Planning your essay
During a 60 minute session, you should spend 5-7 minutes planning what you want to say.
Step 1 - What is your opinion?
Remember: this is your opinion. Everyone has an opinion. Even you. And especially taxi drivers.
Step 2 - Identify key terms AND expand on them
Don't judge a book by its cover.
This is where you put on your thinking cap. First, break the topic into smaller pieces:
Then start asking some questions.
Don't judge a book by its cover
Write about a situation which could be summarised by this saying.
The Introduction
Your introduction should give the reader an overview of what your essay is about. A good introduction will:
Provide a context.
Introduce the topic.
Introduce the theme(s).
Introduce techniques
used.
How do I structure a paragraph?
Topic Sentence -- general statement
Expansion -- provide more details
Example -- support your point
Link -- link to main point/forward to next point
Example paragraphs
I've written an example introduction and a body paragraph about "Where is the Love?" by The Black-Eyed Peas.
Introduction
The Black-Eyed Peas’ “Where is the Love?”, released in 2003 during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, is critical of the United States’ so-called “War on Terror.”
The song functions as a call to action, urging the listener to oppose the West’s intervention in the Middle East.
Additionally, the Peas combine elements of rap and pop music, as well as rhyme and rhetorical language to appeal to an audience outside of the United States.
The song suggests that the West should consider the problems in its own backyard before trying to intervene in the affairs of other countries.
Body Paragraph #1
The song’s joyful melody evokes a feeling of hope and suggests that while the problems faced by the world are great, they can be overcome.
The song opens with a simple AABB rhyming scheme and employs internal rhyme.
This creates a catchy flow which helps it appeal to a wider, non-American audience: “And to discriminate only generates hate / And when you hate, then you’re bound to get irate.”
Furthermore, it makes the lyrics easier to remember. This is important when trying to communicate such an important message.
Conclusion
Conclusions conclude your argument. They don't introduce new information. A good conclusion will:
Tie ideas together.
Show personal insight -- sum up your response to the poem.
Leave the reader with something to think about.
Poetic techniques
I have put together a list of examples of figurative language
in popular music.
If you would like more detailed examples, you can find them here.