Drops Of Jupiter  - Train

Now, that she's back in the atmosphere
With drops of Jupiter in her hair
She acts like summer and walks like rain
Reminds me that there's time to change, hey-hey
Since the return of her stay on the Moon
She listens like spring and she talks like June, hey-hey
Hey-hey, yeah

But tell me, did you sail across the Sun?
Did you make it to the Milky Way
to see the lights all faded
And that Heaven is overrated?
Tell me, did you fall for a shooting star?
One without a permanent scar?
And did you miss me while you were looking for yourself out there?

Now, that she's back from that soul vacation
Tracin' her way through the constellation, hey-hey (Mmm)
She checks out Mozart while she does Tae-Bo
Reminds me that there's room to grow, hey-hey, yeah
Now, that she's back in the atmosphere
I'm afraid that she might think of me as
Plain ol' Jane told a story about a man

But tell me, did the wind sweep you off your feet?
Did you finally get the chance to dance along the light of day
And head back to the Milky Way?
And tell me, did Venus blow your mind?
Was it everything you wanted to find?
And did you miss me while you were looking for yourself out there?

Can you imagine no love, pride, deep-fried chicken
Your best friend always sticking up for you
Even when I know you're wrong?
Can you imagine no first dance, freeze-dried romance
Five-hour phone conversation
The best soy latte that you ever had, and me?

But tell me, did the wind sweep you off your feet? (Feet)
Did you finally get the chance to dance along the light of day (The light of day)
And head back toward the Milky Way?
And tell me, did you sail across the Sun?
Did you make it to the Milky Way
to see the lights all faded
And that Heaven is overrated?
And tell me, did you fall for a shooting star?
One without a permanent scar?

Na-na, na-na, na-na
Na-na, na-na, na-na, na-na, na-na
And did you finally get the chance to dance along the light of day?
Na-na, na-na, na-na
Na-na, na-na, na-na, na-na, na-na
And did you fall for a shooting star?
Fall for a shooting star?
Na-na, na-na, na-na
Na-na, na-na, na-na, na-na, na-na
And are you lonely looking for yourself out there?